#summary Installation manual for binary package for windows
#labels Phase-Deploy

== 0. Versions ==
Two versions of binary distribution are available: built in MSVC and GCC.

== 1. Set environment variables ==
While starting Axis2/C server or any client/service application, these environment variables, must be set:
{{{
AXIS2C_HOME=c:\ws\axis2c
STAFF_HOME=c:\ws\staff
PATH=c:\ws\lib;%AXIS2C_HOME%\lib;%STAFF_HOME%\lib;%STAFF_HOME%\bin
}}}

You can set these variables in system properties. After setting these variables, You must relogin or reboot Windows.

== 2. Install ==
Unpack archive file {{{ws-<ARCH>-vs2005-staff-<STAFF_VERSION>.7z}}} or {{{ws-win32-gccXXX-staff-<STAFF_VERSION>.7z}}} to c:\

Where {{{<ARCH>}}} is a package architecture: win32 or win64.

You should see following directories, if using MSVC (vs2005) version:
{{{
c:\ws\axis2c
c:\ws\staff
}}}

And, if you using GCC (MinGW) version:
{{{
c:\ws\axis2c
c:\ws\include
c:\ws\lib
c:\ws\staff
}}}

== 3. Start Axis2/c ==
Open command prompt and enter:
{{{
cd %AXIS2C_HOME%\bin
axis2_http_server
}}}

Axis2/C must start.

  ||_If You get error "Cannot execute file" or similar, possibly You need to install vs2005 vcredist_x86.exe package (occurs only under winxp and prior).<p>If Axis2/C server finishes immediately after starting, please see c:\ws\axis2c\logs\axis2.log to diagnose the problem.<br/>The most common problem is in the wrong setting environment variables._||

== 4. Services list ==
Open web browser and enter this address:

http://localhost:9090/axis2/services

Services list must shown.

== 5. Start sample "calc" ==
Open command prompt and enter:
{{{
%STAFF_HOME%\samples\bin\calc_client
}}}

Service execution results must shown.
